# Behavioral Questions and Complex Situations in Life (STAR) 
### Highly challenging, but did not give up
**Situation 1:** Switching from a school in the local language to an English medium, where it was difficult to follow the classes taught in English. Sometimes, I felt I would be better off going back to the old school and continuing in the local language. However, I did not do that. Despite initial failures and criticism from some faculty members, when I request them to translate a few questions in the classroom, they do not do it. Rather, focused on learning English from everyone who spoke, where I started to remember certain new words and how they made up sentences with them. Slowly started giving speeches and engaging in classroom talks. Many mistakes, but eventually I got rid of the fear of making mistakes first, then corrected them. Compared to the earlier version, my current version is far better. Learning is not giving up on problems that seem impossible and difficult. In reality, it is not impossible; it just needs an attempt.

**Situation 2:** In the early days of my PhD, neural networks, tools, publications, etc., were all quite alien to me. For the first three years, I struggled to understand and learn to train a model. In fact, reproducing a paper and applying a simple change to it took almost half a year for me. Python and PyTorch were quite new. The original paper uses high-resolution images and high-end computing.
On the other hand, we had limited computing. Using the same setup, I ran into an OOM error. I did not know what was causing the 12GB GPU memory explosion and how to fix it. I set the batch size to one image, it did not work. Tried printing every accessible attribute, such as feature dimensions at each layer, and got a clue. The feature size was big. I explored the problem and, as a result, learned various techniques to fix memory issues and speed up the training. These included gradient accumulation, mixed-precision training, clearing the cache, reducing parameters by removing some layers, dynamic memory allocation, running on the CPU, data parallelism, distributed data parallelism, etc. I felt bad about the OOM problem initially, while others were writing papers and submitting to different venues. However, at the end of the day, I learned many techniques that others are not aware of.  

### Complex Trade-Offs
**Situation 1:** While committing to a PhD, folks at home were quite unhappy with the long-term commitment. This is especially because I am a lady. Some strongly suggested that I learn cooking and get married. I pretended to follow their suggestions to avoid personal conflicts with them, since they were the ones who raised me and were more concerned about my safety, health, and personal life than my professional life. The trade-off for me was between going with family and pursuing higher studies. Either one was possible, not both. When I was at home with them, I tried my best to convince them about the benefits of higher education. They did not convince. I had no idea initially how to figure out the solution. I changed the approach. Against their wish, I took admission into the college. While I was away from home, it became easy for me to talk less and give them time to think and reconsider their opinions. After many debates, they were okay. Learning is that when one approach does not work, it does not mean that the problem cannot be solved; rather, it means we need to try different approaches. 

**Situation 2:** Interview on the day after and preparing to travel for transcripts the day before. Long distance travel needed a comapny. So, can't postpone that. At the same time, can't also move the interview. Thought either one can be done. However, tried my best accomplishing both. I had no idea where I would be on the day of certificate collection and on the same the interview was scheduled. When the test time came, quickly found a place under a tree, no laptop, joined from a smartphone. A friend with me helped me with a pen and a book. It was an amazing experience. The learning is that not always we need comfortable setups to solve problems. Motivation and necessity can drive us to achieve anything from any place, and with any resources. 

**Situation 3:** Making a trip early in the morning to the org and execute the task, which is highly time consuming due to entry formalities, internet restrictions, using memory cards, etc. In contrary, working from our lab was flexible. Sitting at the lab, we can solve the problem to some extent. Working at org, nothing much can be done. Have to figure out a way better to solve the problem. We have no hardware to work in the lab and we were ordered demonstrate the idea to the sponsers at org. In the entire situation, the board was causing the confusion. If we directly tell the sponsers that we wouldn't have sufficient time to excecute the job, they would tell us work there for several days, which we don't want to. We had no other option but to make a trip. Planning to prepare ourselves. But resistance in heart to not to go keep insisting me to find a workaround. The whole problem was due to board, thought to myself why can't we get a similar board from someone. That in fact helped us with the situation. We could found a board with similar features and stayed back in the lab. 

**Situation 4:** Not enough compute. We took that as an opportunity and developed a novel efficient model. 

### Sometimes Simpler Can Fix the Problem 
**Situation 1:** Advisor disappointment leading to novel ideas. Sometimes, not having guidance make us think independently and come up with better ideas
**Situation 2:** SNSM, a simple technique after a failure idea improved significantly better over existing complex approaches. This was due to lack of datasets
**Situation 3:** 
 
